Apollo 12 was the second lunar landing
mission and it launched on November 14th
of 1969
and this time around there was a little
bit more science involved five days
after launching through famously stormy
skies Apollo 12 commander Pete Conrad
brought the lunar module intrepid down
for a pinpoint landing on the moon's
ocean of storms this pinpoint landing
was pretty significant when Apollo 11
went to the moon the crew had a rough
landing area but no pinpoint landing
position it was up to Neil Armstrong in
real time to pick the best-looking
landing spot for Pete Conrad he had to
land near a spacecraft surveyor 3 that
it landed on the moon three years
previously part of the Apollo 12 mission
was to recover some hardware from this
old spacecraft you have to remember that
when engineers started planning a
mission to the moon in the early 1960s
no one really knew what the moon was
going to be like it was possible that
engineers would design a spacecraft to
land on something rocky like the Arizona
desert and find that the moon's surface
was actually covered in about 10 feet of
something the consistency of icing sugar
no one really knew what they were
getting into and they had to do some
Institute reconnaissance before sending
a manned mission to land on the surface
the surveyor program sought to address
these issues it was designed to scope
out the moon in advance of the Apollo
moon landings by gathering information
about the surface environment and also
just figure out a little bit more about
the moon in its environment surveyor 3
launched from NASA's Kennedy Space
Center more than two years before Apollo
12 on April 17th of 1967 it reached the
moon after a three-day transit and
thanks to its Doppler and radar
altimeter managed to soft landing in the
ocean of storms the spacecraft lived for
two weeks on the surface that's one
lunar day and spent 18 hours and 22
minutes digging small trenches and took
six thousand 326 pictures it returned
information on the strength texture and
structure of the lunar material to earth
information that helped Apollo mission
managers design the Apollo lunar landing
vehicle on November 19th of 1969 during
their second moonwalk astronauts al bean
and Pete Conrad walked over to surveyor
they recovered some of the TV equipment
and also the scoop from the space craft
and brought it back to earth it was the
only Institute intersection between
Apollo and one of its pre
sesor missions Apollo astronauts
recovering hardware from a previous
mission that landed on the moon and
landing pinpoint for science it happened
this month in space